##AWS Networking Services

Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC):
	A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a virtual network dedicated to your AWS account.
	Analogous to having your own DC inside AWS.
	It is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS Cloud.
	Provides complete control over the virtual networking environment including selection of IP ranges, creation of subnets, and configuration of route tables and gateways.
	You can launch your AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances, into your VPC.
	When you create a VPC, you must specify a range of IPv4 addresses for the VPC in the form of a Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block; for example, 10.0.0.0/16.
	This is the primary CIDR block for your VPC.
	A VPC spans all the Availability Zones in the region.
	You have full control over who has access to the AWS resources inside your VPC.
	You can create your own IP address ranges, and create subnets, route tables and network gateways.

	Components of a VPC:
		A Virtual Private Cloud: A logically isolated virtual network in the AWS cloud. You define a VPC’s IP address space from ranges you select.
		Subnet: A segment of a VPC’s IP address range where you can place groups of isolated resources (maps to an AZ, 1:1).
		Internet Gateway: The Amazon VPC side of a connection to the public Internet.
		NAT Gateway: A highly available, managed Network Address Translation (NAT) service for your resources in a private subnet to access the Internet.
		Hardware VPN Connection: A hardware-based VPN connection between your Amazon VPC and your datacenter, home network, or co-location facility.
		Virtual Private Gateway: The Amazon VPC side of a VPN connection.
		Customer Gateway: Your side of a VPN connection.
		Router: Routers interconnect subnets and direct traffic between Internet gateways, virtual private gateways, NAT gateways, and subnets.
		Peering Connection: A peering connection enables you to route traffic via private IP addresses between two peered VPCs.
		VPC Endpoints: Enables private connectivity to services hosted in AWS, from within your VPC without using an Internet Gateway, VPN, Network Address Translation (NAT) devices, or firewall proxies.
		Egress-only Internet Gateway: A stateful gateway to provide egress only access for IPv6 traffic from the VPC to the Internet.

	Options for securely connecting to a VPC are:

		AWS managed VPN – fast to setup.
		Direct Connect – high bandwidth, low-latency but takes weeks to months to setup.
		VPN CloudHub – used for connecting multiple sites to AWS.
		Software VPN – use 3rd party software.
		
	An Elastic Network Interface (ENI) is a logical networking component that represents a NIC.
	ENIs can be attached and detached from EC2 instances, and the configuration of the ENI will be maintained.
	Flow Logs capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in a VPC.
	Flow log data is stored using Amazon CloudWatch Logs.
	Flow logs can be created at the following levels:
	VPC.
	Subnet.
	Network interface.
	Peering connections can be created with VPCs in different regions (available in most regions now).

Subnets:
	After creating a VPC, you can add one or more subnets in each Availability Zone.
	When you create a subnet, you specify the CIDR block for the subnet, which is a subset of the VPC CIDR block.
	Each subnet must reside entirely within one Availability Zone and cannot span zones.

	Types of subnet:
		If a subnet’s traffic is routed to an internet gateway, the subnet is known as a public subnet.
		If a subnet doesn’t have a route to the internet gateway, the subnet is known as a private subnet.
		If a subnet doesn’t have a route to the internet gateway, but has its traffic routed to a virtual private gateway for a VPN connection, the subnet is known as a VPN-only subnet.

	An Internet Gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between instances in your VPC and the internet.

Firewalls:
	Network Access Control Lists (ACLs) provide a firewall/security layer at the subnet level.
	Security Groups provide a firewall/security layer at the instance level.
	The table below describes some differences between Security Groups and Network ACLs:
	

VPC Wizard:
	The VPC Wizard can be used to create the following four configurations:

	VPC with a Single Public Subnet:
	Your instances run in a private, isolated section of the AWS cloud with direct access to the Internet.
	Network access control lists and security groups can be used to provide strict control over inbound and outbound network traffic to your instances.
	Creates a /16 network with a /24 subnet. Public subnet instances use Elastic IPs or Public IPs to access the Internet.

	VPC with Public and Private Subnets:
	In addition to containing a public subnet, this configuration adds a private subnet whose instances are not addressable from the Internet.
	Instances in the private subnet can establish outbound connections to the Internet via the public subnet using Network Address Translation (NAT).
	Creates a /16 network with two /24 subnets.
	Public subnet instances use Elastic IPs to access the Internet.
	Private subnet instances access the Internet via Network Address Translation (NAT).
	VPC with Public and Private Subnets and Hardware VPN Access:
	
	VPC with Public and Private Subnets and Hardware VPN Access:
	This configuration adds an IPsec Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection between your Amazon VPC and your data center – effectively extending your data center to the cloud while also providing direct access to the Internet for public subnet instances in your Amazon VPC.
	Creates a /16 network with two /24 subnets.
	One subnet is directly connected to the Internet while the other subnet is connected to your corporate network via an IPsec VPN tunnel.

	VPC with a Private Subnet Only and Hardware VPN Access:
	Your instances run in a private, isolated section of the AWS cloud with a private subnet whose instances are not addressable from the Internet.
	You can connect this private subnet to your corporate data center via an IPsec Virtual Private Network (VPN) tunnel.
	Creates a /16 network with a /24 subnet and provisions an IPsec VPN tunnel between your Amazon VPC and your corporate network.

AWS Direct Connect (DX):
	AWS Direct Connect is a network service that provides an alternative to using the Internet to connect a customer’s on-premises sites to AWS.
	Data is transmitted through a private network connection between AWS and a customer’s data center or corporate network.
	
	Benefits of Direct Connect:
	Reduce cost when using large volumes of traffic.
	Increase reliability (predictable performance).
	Increase bandwidth (predictable bandwidth).
	Decrease latency.
	Each AWS Direct Connect connection can be configured with one or more virtual interfaces (VIFs).

	Public VIFs allow access to public services such as S3, EC2, and DynamoDB.
	Private VIFs allow access to your VPC.
	From Direct Connect you can connect to all AZs within the Region.
	You can establish IPSec connections over public VIFs to remote regions.
	Direct Connect is charged by port hours and data transfer.
	Available in 1Gbps and 10Gbps.
	Speeds of 50Mbps, 100Mbps, 200Mbps, 300Mbps, 400Mbps, and 500Mbps can be purchased through AWS Direct Connect Partners.
	Each connection consists of a single dedicated connection between ports on the customer router and an Amazon router.
	for HA you must have 2 DX connections – can be active/active or active/standby.
	Route tables need to be updated to point to a Direct Connect connection.
