##Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3):-
	Amazon S3 is object storage built to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere – web sites and mobile apps, corporate applications, and data from IoT sensors or devices.
	You can store any type of file in S3.
	Typical use cases include:
	Backup and Storage – Provide data backup and storage services for others.
	Application Hosting – Provide services that deploy, install, and manage web applications.
	Media Hosting – Build a redundant, scalable, and highly available infrastructure that hosts video, photo, or music uploads and downloads.
	Software Delivery – Host your software applications that customers can download.
	Static Website – you can configure a static website to run from an S3 bucket.

	There are seven S3 storage classes.

	S3 Standard (durable, immediately available, frequently accessed).
	S3 Intelligent-Tiering (automatically moves data to the most cost-effective tier).
	S3 Standard-IA (durable, immediately available, infrequently accessed).
	S3 One Zone-IA (lower cost for infrequently accessed data with less resilience).
	S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval (data that is rarely accessed and requires retrieval in milliseconds).
	S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval (archived data, retrieval times in minutes or hours).
	S3 Glacier Deep Archive (lowest cost storage class for long term retention).

##AWS Snowball:-
	With AWS Snowball (Snowball), you can transfer hundreds of terabytes or petabytes of data between your on-premises data centers and Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3).
	Uses a secure storage device for physical transportation.
	AWS Snowball Client is software that is installed on a local computer and is used to identify, compress, encrypt, and transfer data.
	Uses 256-bit encryption (managed with the AWS KMS) and tamper-resistant enclosures with TPM.
	The table below describes the AWS Snow offerings at a high-level:
	S3 is designed to deliver 99.999999999% durability, and stores data for millions of applications used by market leaders in every industry.
	S3 provides comprehensive security and compliance capabilities that meet even the most stringent regulatory requirements.
	S3 gives customers flexibility in the way they manage data for cost optimization, access control, and compliance.

##Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS):-
	Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) provides persistent block storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances in the AWS Cloud.
	Each Amazon EBS volume is automatically replicated within its Availability Zone to protect you from component failure, offering high availability and durability.
	Amazon EBS volumes offer the consistent and low-latency performance needed to run your workloads. With Amazon EBS, you can scale your usage up or down within minutes – all while paying a low price for only what you provision.

##nstance Store Volumes:-
	Instance store volumes are high performance local disks that are physically attached to the host computer on which an EC2 instance runs.
	Instance stores are ephemeral which means the data is lost when powered off (non-persistent).
	Instances stores are ideal for temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, or  scratch data.
	Instance store volume root devices are created from AMI templates stored on S3.
	Instance store volumes cannot be detached/reattached.

##Amazon Elastic File System (EFS):-
	EFS is a fully managed service that makes it easy to set up and scale file storage in the Amazon Cloud.
	Good for big data and analytics, media processing workflows, content management, web serving, home directories etc.
	EFS uses the NFS protocol.
	Pay for what you use (no pre-provisioning required).
	Can scale up to petabytes.
	EFS is elastic and grows and shrinks as you add and remove data.
	Can concurrently connect 1 to 1000s of EC2 instances, from multiple AZs.
	A file system can be accessed concurrently from all AZs in the region where it is located.
	By default you can create up to 10 file systems per account.
	On-premises access can be enabled via Direct Connect or AWS VPN.

##AWS Storage Gateway:-
	AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that gives you on-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage.
	Customers use Storage Gateway to simplify storage management and reduce costs for key hybrid cloud storage use cases.
	These include moving backups to the cloud, using on-premises file shares backed by cloud storage, and providing low latency access to data in AWS for on-premises applications.
	To support these use cases, Storage Gateway offers three different types of gateways:
		File Gateway – provides file system interfaces to on-premises servers.
		Volume Gateway – provides block-based access for on-premises servers.
		Tape Gateway – provides a virtual tape library that is compatible with common backup software (block and file interfaces).

##Questions

Q1: Which AWS service provides a fully managed NoSQL database service that provides fast and predictable performance with seamless scalability?
A. AWS RDS
B. DynamoDB
C. Oracle RDS
D. Elastic Map Reduce

Answer: – DynamoDB

Q2: In the shared responsibility model for infrastructure services, such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, which of the below two are customers responsibility?
A. Network infrastructure
B. Amazon Machine Images (AMIs)
C. Virtualization infrastructure
D. Physical security of hardware
E. Policies and configuration

Answer: Amazon Machine Images(AMIs) & POlicies and Configuration

3: AWS offers two savings plans to enable more savings and flexibility for its customers, namely, compute saving plans and EC2 Instance Savings plans.
Which of the below statement is FALSE regarding Saving Plans?
A. Capacity Reservations are not provided with Saving Plans.
B. Savings Plans are available for all the regions.
C. Savings plans will apply on ‘On-Demand Capacity Reservations’ that customers can allocate for their needs.
D. The prices for Savings Plans do not change based on the amount of hourly commitment.

Answer: Savings plans are available for all the regions

Q4: Which of the following LightSail Wizard allows the customers to “create a copy of the LightSail instance in EC2”?
A. LightSail Backup
B. LightSail Copy
C. Upgrade to EC2
D. LightSail-EC2 snapshot

Answer: Upgrade to EC2

Q5. Cosmo Property has its data centres on-premises. They are planning to move to the AWS cloud. What is the primary value proposition of cloud computing?
A. Reduced effort and investment in staff training
B. Less expenditure as changing from Operational Expenses to Capital Expenses
C. Less expenditure as changing from Capital Expenses to Operational Expenses
D. Resource sharing and parallel executions of applications on multiple on-premises data centres

Answer: Less expenditure as changing from Capital Expenses to Operational Expenses

Q6.According to the Shared Responsibility Model, what is Sun Solar’s responsibility for various AWS resources?
A. Encryption of Data
B. Infrastructure Security
C. Network Cabling
D. Hardware Firmware

Answer: Encryption of data

Q7.Amazon Route 53 enables users to:
A. encrypt data in transit
B. register DNS domain names
C. generate and manage SSL certificates
D. establish a dedicated network connection to AWS

Answer: register DNS domain names

Q8.Which AWS service should be used to create a billing alarm?
A. AWS Trusted Advisor
B. AWS CloudTrail
C. Amazon CloudWatch
D. Amazon QuickSight

Answer: Amazon cloudwatch

Q9.Users are reporting latency when connecting to a website with a global customer base.
Which AWS service will improve the customer experience by reducing latency?
A. Amazon CloudFront
B. AWS Direct Connect
C. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
D. AWS Transit Gateway

Answer: Amazon Cloudfront

Q10.A company wants to use an AWS service to monitor the health of application endpoints, with the ability to route traffic to healthy regional endpoints to improve application availability.
Which service will support these requirements?
A. Amazon Inspector
B. Amazon CloudWatch
C. AWS Global Accelerator
D. Amazon CloudFront

Answer: AWS Global Accelerator


